[Music]
hey how's it going Dave Judy here so
this is a video on five free window apps
that I think everyone should be using
and this video is a little bit different
from the Mac version that I made a
couple days ago because Windows users
have a huge selection of free apps to
choose from so what I'm going to do is
do five free apps that I think everyone
should be using and then list a few more
apps that I think are also really good
also free but are more specialized so
those may not apply to everyone
depending on what you do or don't do and
as usual
none of these are sponsored because
those videos suck okay first one it's an
antivirus I'm the type of person that
doesn't use an antivirus because I'm an
idiot
but I'm just comfortable formatting
frequently so I'm okay with it but for
most people who are not stupid you
should run an antivirus my two favorite
are AVG and Avast or a VST there's a
site called AV test they're an
independent site that tests antivirus
really extensively and then they update
their ranking list so in terms of the
free ones AVG and AV ast are always near
the top this Ahn thing is up there as
well but it's a paid software so let's
screw that guy with the current builds a
vast does a better job at detecting
current malware but AVG is slightly less
taxing on your system you really can't
go wrong with either of them I prefer
performance so if I had to choose I'd go
with AVG if you're wandering Microsoft
Windows Defender isn't perfect for
detection and when it's running there's
a measurable performance hit next up we
have a clipboard manager called ditto
these are apps that kind of store all
the stuff you copy using control-c so if
you copy a selection of text and then
later on you copy more text ditto
stores it all into a clipboard manager
really useful for essays development and
just about anything if you've never used
one before install it they're very
lightweight and pretty useful all right
next up is flux or efflux it's a program
that adjusts the color temperature of
your screen based on the time of day so
during daylight hours your screen looks
completely normal but as the Sun sets
the blue hues get reduced on the screen
which makes it more comfortable for your
eyes it's a little weird at first
because stuff looks really warm and
orange but you get used to it and once
you do your computer usage at night is
too
easier on your eyes and personally I can
fall asleep more readily after using
computer that's had efflux running the
next thing okay we need to talk about
something related there's an app called
ccleaner it used to be amazing like it
seriously belongs in top three apps for
Windows but Windows 10 has gotten better
and better at cleaning up its own mess
and at this point unless you really know
what you're doing with it I don't
recommend ccleaner anymore especially
with cleaning registries nowadays a
registry cleanup can mess things up
pretty bad the thing is CCleaner also
came with a good uninstaller but since I
don't recommend ccleaner anymore we got
to find a separate uninstaller program
and my favorite one right now is IObit
Uninstaller it's pretty simple the UI is
good and it just does what it says it
does it cleanly uninstalls your
applications ok the last of this group
of apps is a text editor so instead of
using something super basic like notepad
that comes with Windows there's
something called notepad plus plus it's
basically an amped-up version of notepad
a lot of the features are geared towards
developers there's syntax highlighting
and you can have multi editing but a lot
of the features are awesome for regular
people you can zoom in and out of your
documents and my favorite is that you
can have different tabs open so I use a
text editor for a bunch of stuff in my
life and notepad plus plus is awesome
for it now I know some of you guys are
developers and you're using things like
sublime and Adam but for the average
person that isn't a developer notepad
plus plus is solid so they'll absolutely
have listed so far those are just apps
that everyone would use oh I think that
everyone should be able to use the next
five are a little more specific so the
first one is an app called discord if
you've been using Ventrilo teamspeak
mumble or some other kind of voice chat
to play games you should consider
switching to discord I think it's the
best of the team chat programs it has
your usual desktop client but you can
also run it from a web browser and you
can even send people links that
instantly brings them into your channel
it also tells you what games your
friends are playing and if they're
online if you're not using this yet you
should switch next up is OBS or herbs at
its basics it's a screen capture program
it's how I'm recording all these clips
but it can stream to any rtmp enabled
service like twitch and YouTube
it also supports quick sync for faster
video processing has an audio mixer
plugin it's really solid the one thing
that doesn't have is like a secondary
stream so if you want to stream your
game while showing a web
of you playing or like a webcam of your
keyboard it doesn't support that okay if
you're looking to edit videos and you
want something a little more
feature-rich than Windows Movie Maker my
top picks are hitfilm and DaVinci
Resolve now the free versions of these
applications are toned down from the
paid versions but there's still very
capable programs I've actually edited
some of my older videos with both of
these hitfilm has more features and
regards to effects like if you want to
add any kind of visual effects hitfilm
has stuff that's built into it and it
basically supports any kind of video
format so if you're shooting from a
GoPro hit film is great if you have a
more advanced camera like a DSLR
I'd go with DaVinci Resolve it has some
really powerful color correction and
color grading tools another notable
feature about resolve is how well it
uses GPUs so if you're fortunate to have
a really good video card resolve can
take better advantage of it now if
you're looking for a free photoshop type
program if you just want something
better than mspaint there's which
is a pretty powerful photo editor but
windows users are lucky and also have
access to paint.net
so I've used both of these is more
powerful and has access to a lot more
features some of the plugins are amazing
like G mic paint.net isn't as
feature-rich but it's so much easier to
learn how to use so if you're new to
photo editing or digital illustration I
would highly recommend paint.net
fantastic program and I think for like
90% of people that use it you'll be able
to do whatever you want to do with a
photo editing program okay the last one
is a hardware monitor and choosing one
of these is like choosing a brand of
cereal there are a ton of good options
and everyone has their personal favorite
my pick is hardware info it's an app for
people who want to keep track of their
systems so if you want to see your
processor use temperatures memory usage
does a really good job it can monitor
your system very extensively and if all
the ones that I've tried I think that's
the best overall package and that's
about it if you guys learned a thing or
two like if you've discovered an app
because of this video I'd love to hear
about it if you didn't learn anything
that's pretty sad but let me know in the
comments below if you knew about all
these apps to begin with I hope you guys
enjoyed this video thumbs be liked it
subs we loved it I'll see you guys next
time
[Music]